The aim of this class is to
acquire a strategic vision of
marketing and the different
models, concepts, tools, etc.
that are integrated or englobated
within marketing.
There are many models that will sound
to you, sure you will sound the
four OPs of the marketing mix, you
will sound concepts like positioning,
such as segmentation, etc.
But it is interesting that we
understand, from a more strategic
or earlier perspective in
many cases, how all the pieces
fit.
Because it's really a marketing
plan, whether what we're creating
is the zero proposal or the zero
plan, we should consider all these
steps, we should understand
what the relationships between
one and the other are.
By the way, marketing professionals,
especially if they work
in large companies, usually
focus their work on some
of the more operational
or tactical parts.
For example, imagine the P of
marketing mix promotion, in
giving to know.
Or maybe they are in pricing
or in product issues, etc.
But you'll only have the
chance to really design everything
from the top if you're the most
responsible or if you're creating
a new product, a new service
or if you're an entrepreneur,
for example.
The first thing I'm going to do
is share with you a model that is
STP, which is segmentation,
targeting and positioning, which
is ultra-known.
It has to sound this, although it
is true that it is more known in
the American business
schools than in Spain or Latin America.
It is a model that describes
the phases in the strategic
marketing process.
And we added two phases to it
because we believe we have enriched it.
And we have the following model,
segmentation, targeting, customer
person, positioning and marketing
mix.
The first thing I will do is to
divide this model into two blocks.
The first thing is to decide who we are
going to address, not only to decide
who but more to know him well.
And this how do we do it?
We do it with targeting,
we do it with
customer person.
And then what we will do is
decide how we will target
that segment or those segments
that we have decided to
be our targets.
Here comes the marketing
mix.
We start with segmentation.
Segmentation consists of, from the
entire market to which we could be
directed, from the entire market or
target audience, dividing it into
different segments or homogeneous groups.
And how will we do it?
We will do this by using
a series of criteria
or segmentation variables.
We see this in detail in the
Customer Centric module.
They are geographical
or demographic by age, gender,
etc.
Psychology by Profile.
We can use criteria such as,
I don't know, conservatives,
cosmopolitan, etc.
urban and rural.
The behavioral variables
that we do is use criteria
or segment based on the
interactions you have
had with us.
I give you an extreme example.
We can segment into two large segments
based on the fact that they have already
bought us and we adapt everything
that comes after to those who
have bought us and those who have
not bought us, customers and
not customers, so that you have
the idea.
And the last of the variables and
the most important is to segment
according to what are
the problems or needs that
the different segments seek in us.
Then what we do is use the
five criteria or those that correspond
to you and you determine
segments.
The next step is targeting.
It is up to us to decide which of
these segments we will be addressing.
By the way, the reality is that
segmentation and targeting
are done unified in reality.
Although they are two distinct stages
in theory, when you are segmenting
in the bottom, you are already
deciding who you want to address.
What criteria can we use to decide
within all the segments that
exist which ones we will be addressing
or which ones interest us?
You can use common
sense.
You have resources
to access them.
If we have made a geographical segmentation
and one of the segments is China,
and it can also be a giant, super
interesting segment, but
it is that we can't get
there, it is that it's a very
simple criterion.
Another reason is that this
segment is growing.
It has a potential for growth or
is profitable.
And one very important one is, within
that segment, how is the competitive environment?
There is more or less competition.
Will we be able to be competitive
in this segment?
This is often a very important
criterion.
Do you recognize that there is
a potential in a particular area?
But there are very strong competitors.
Better to play something else.
In this phase of targeting, here
they apply concepts or models that,
for example, the DAFO.
We analyze our strengths, weaknesses,
threats and opportunities.
And that will help us a little
to decide which segments
we can go to.
A model for scaling the market
or each of those segments.
As for the Samsung TAM, we will
see it in detail.
Well, we have already classified the
total market into a number of segments.
We also know which areas
are most important to us.
The next thing we have to do is, we
have to understand them very well.
We need to turn those targets into
real people.
We use the Customer
Persona tool.
We see it in detail in the
Customer Centric module.
We put him face and eyes,
describe what he does, what he thinks,
with whom he relates, what social networks
he consults, etc.
Well, we already have clear who we are going
to address and how it is.
This is very important to do well.
It is really the basis of success.
And then, let's see how we
will address that Customer
Persona.
Our customers are those who
are our goals.
Here we enter the positioning phase.
It's more strategic than marketing
mix.
Positioning is basically deciding
what place we want to occupy in
the minds of our target audience.
This is very dependent on
competition.
In many cases, it will be the hole
that leaves you competition.
Competition already exists.
Are there tools or models that are
related to the positioning?
Again the Dafa.
As we say, we have to see
what the gap leaves the competition.
Concepts such as competitive advantage.
Or the differentiation.
We also talk about branding.
We need to create a
brand.
The brand is closely related
to positioning.
How do we want to position
our brand in the market?
All the existing brands.
How do we position it?
What hole do we want our brand
to occupy in the mind of consumers?
The positioning is very
strategic.
Branding is very strategic.
Then we go to the most operational level.
This is the marketing mix.
It is the famous model of the
four P's.
conditioned by the above.
We are determining the product,
the price.
How we will introduce
our customers.
How we will get to them.
The product.
For example, the product or
product list.
This is the model of the Boston
Consulting Group.
We will see.
You need to understand the product'
s life cycle.
That's another model we've met.
The pricing strategies.
As for promotion.
We talk about advertising, etc.
or distribution channels.
How we will reach our customers.
As you can see, this is the last
of the stages.
That's what they usually
work on.
People and professionals.
Related to marketing.
They work on marketing
mix.
But it is important that we understand.
It all comes from a
previous strategic planning.